Q. No:1. Choose the correct options.				Marks: - (17)	              Time: 20 MINT
1.	Which diode works at reverse blasing?
             (a)  LED                         (b) Photovoltaic cell               (c) Photodiode                          (d) Silicon diode 
2.	Electric potential energy per unit charge is known as electric
(a) flux			(b)Potential difference 	         (c)intensity		      (d)force
3.	In photovoltaic cell, current is directly proportional to: 
             (a) wavelength of light        (b) intensity of light        (c) frequency of light                   (d) energy 
4.	Gravitational force is 
		(a) Very strong force 	(b) Repulsive force  		(c) Medium dependent 	(d) None of these
5.	When the temperature of a conductor increases, its resistance
(a) Decreases	(b)Increases          (c)First increases and then decreases              (d)Remains constant
6.	The resistance of a conductor increases by
(a)	Decreasing the length 			(b) Decreasing the thickness
		(c) Increasing both length and thickness 		(d) Increasing length and decreasing thickness
7.	Induced emf produced in a coil rotating in a magnetic field will be maximum when the angle between the axis of the coil and direction of magnetic field is 
a) 180o 			b) 90o 				c) 45o 				d) 0o 
8.	1 tesla is equals to
	(a)	1 NA–1m–1	(b)	1NA–1 m 		(c)	1 NAm–1		(d)	1NAm
9.	If two parallel wires carrying current in opposite direction, then            	           
(a)	They repel each other 				(b) They attract each other 
		(c)	They do not affect each other 			(d) All possible
10.	In the equation F = Fe + Fb, F is called…… force.
		(a)  Restoring	(b)  Lorentz		(c)  Deflecting		(d) None of these
11.	A galvanometer behaves more sensitive when the factor   is
		(a)	Small		(b)	Large			(c)	infinite			(d)	zero
12.	An unknown circuit element gives current of Io sinωt is applies across it. It is a 
(a)  Resistor		(b) Capacitor 		(c) Inductor 	   (d) May be any of the above. 
13.	Lenz’s law is in accordance with law of conservation of:
			(a)	Mass		(b) Momentum		(c)	Charge			(d)	Energy
14.	A charged particle moves along a circle under the action of possible and magnetic fields. Which of the following is possible? 
(a) 	E = 0, B = 0 	(b) 	E = 0 , B ≠ 0 		(c) E ≠ 0, B = 0 		(d)      E ≠  0, B ≠ 0
15.	A wire has a current of 2A in it. How much charge passes a passes a point in the wire in one minute. 
(a) 2C 		(b) 30C 			(c) 60C 			(d) 120C 
16.	The principle of an electric generator is based on…..	
             (a)  Newton’s law of gravitation 		(b)  Faraday’s law of electromagnetic induction
			(c) Coulomb’s law                                   (d)  Ohm’s law
17.  A two Inputs NAND gate with inputs A and B has an outputs 0 if 
             (a) A is 0                     (b) both A and B are zero       (c) B is O                         (d) both A and B are 1



	




 
Paper: Subjective				Subject: - Physics 	 	   	Time: 2:30 hrs 	
Q.2	   Answer these questions.
i.	What is the effect of medium between the charges upon Coulomb's force?  
ii.	What is the effect of dielectric on the capacitance of capacitor?
iii.	Prove that ohm times farad is equal to second. 	                 
iv.	Show that interior of a hollow charged sphere is field free region.
v.	 Prove that Volt/metre is equal to newton/coulomb
vi.	What do you mean by electroplating?
vii.	What is Wheatstone bridge? How can it be used to determine an unknown resistance?
viii.	Fine the heat dissipated through a bulb of 100W is an hour.
ix.	What do you mean by ohmic and non ohmic substances?Also make their graph.
x.	Difference between emf and terminal P.D.
xi.	Why is the base current in a transistor is very small?
xii.	Why does the resistance of a conductor rise with temperature?
xiii.	The transformer does not work on D.C. why?
xiv.	Why charge carriers are not present in the depletion region?
xv.	How efficiency of the transformer can be improved?
xvi.	How does the motion of an electron in a n-type substance differ from ot from the motion of holes in a p-type substance?
Note:	  Attempt the following questions.					
Q.3	a) 	Describe the experiment for the determination of charge on electron by Milikan's Oil Drop method?
b) 	A rectangular bar of iron is 2.0 cm by 2.0 cm in cross section and 40 cm long Calculate its 
resistance if the resistivity of iron is 11 x10-8  m.
Q.4   	a)     	State and explain Kirchhoff's Current Law and Kirchhoff's Voltage Law ? 
b)    	Two coils are placed side by side. An emf of 0.8 V is observed in one coil when the current is changing at the rate of 200 As-1 in the other coil. What is the mutual inductance of the coils?
Q.5      a)    	Derive an expression for Energy stored in an inductor?					
b) 	A coil of 0.1 m x 0.1 m and of 200 turns carrying a current of 1.0 mA is placed in a uniform magnetic field of 0.1 T. Calculate the maximum torque that acts on the coil.

